So triggers,
let's say you have a function that you
want to run on some sort of event.
That you want to as soon as some
event happens inside of your
database you want some sort of
effect to happen afterwards.
This might be one of the better
reasons to use a function.
Let's say we needed a audit trail
of the names of our recipes.
We wanted to see that this used
to be called Bob's cake and
now it's called Alice's cake and
then it's called Eve's cake, right?
And we want to have that kind
of audit trail of names so
that someone could go mouse over it and
see what they, this used to be called.
This would actually be a really prime
case of where I would use a function and
you would not be able
to do this outside of.
Well you could do it outside of a trigger
you could query the name of what it
used to be.
Then you could write it and then you
could write it to a different table.
This would actually really
easy to write at the trigger,
probably I would might
lean towards doing that,
because having the database handle
this make some sense to me.
So create a table called
updated_recipes with me,
there's nothing interesting here,
except maybe time stamp.
Time stamp is just, it's a time stamp,
there's not really too
much interesting there.
If you wanna see what a time stamp
looks just write SELECT NOW like this.
You'll see, that is what
a timestamp looks like in postgres.
It's going to keep the id of its own id.
It's going to keep the recipe id.
You could technically
make this a foreign key.
I'm not going to because I don't want to,
but
this in all liklihood
should be a foreign key.
I just want to,
I have contrived examples and
I didn't want to have to
deal with constraints.
Old title, new title,
time of update and timestamp, okay?
Copy and paste that.
I think originally I did
have this as a foreign key.
And my examples weren't working and I got
sick of it, so, I didn't wanna do it.
Anyway, So
we're gonna create another function here,
nothing here is really that interesting.
Other than it returns a trigger,
Cuz a trigger is a specific
type of function, right.
And then I did a little bit
more programming stuff here.
So, IF OLD.title And
OLD is a specific name of what it used to
be right because it's a trigger it's gonna
provide both of those as these
like environmental variables.
So if OLD.title is not equal to NEW.title,
right, so
if it changed over the course of this.
Then we're going to insert
this into updated recipe with
all the stuff that we asked for here.
All this function does.
Let's go ahead and copy and
paste that to our Postgres.
So now I have my function here you can see
there I have the set ingredients null,
that is procedure.
This one is a trigger and
this one returns character varying.
So the key part of this trigger is it's
not returning anything because I'm
never going to call this trigger Postgres
is going to call this trigger right?
That's why it has to
return a trigger function.
And then down here we've
created the trigger but
nothing the,
the trigger is not tied to anything yet.
So we have to tell it,
you're going to react to this event.
So that's what this does CREATE OR
REPLACE TRIGGER.
You have to give it a name.
So on an updated recipe trigger
that's what I called it.
Anytime that the recipe table gets
updated, I want this trigger to run.
If it's going to ask is the old
title different than the new title?
If it's not it does nothing.
If it does get updated then it's going to
run insert into this table the updated
recipes table.
Okay so that's what after update
you can say after delete,
you could do after any of these
other events that exist on recipes.
If you update 10 rows, I want to run
this function once for each row.
That's what this for each row execute
procedure, log updated recipe name.
Okay.
So now if I run that,
I have created my trigger.
So now if I update anything,
it's going to, Put stuff in there.
SELECT * from updated_recipes,
you can see I have nothing there.
Do I have a query here that,
no I have to make one up that's fun.
Update, let's see SELECT
* from recipes limit 5.
Okay, so let's update cookies.
So UPDATE recipes SET title
equal to My God Cookies.
I don't know I'm running out of creative
juices at this point in the course.
WHERE recipe_id =1.
So if I do this again.
So it's actually not
doing that WHERE id = 1
Yeah recipe_id rather.
My god cookies.
So there we go.
So now I should see something,
actually have that query in here?
And now you can see, I didn't
insert this the database did it but
this is the id of the change.
The recipe_id is 1, right?
Because I updated cookies
that was the recipe_id here.
The old title was cookies
the new title is My God cookies,
hashtag art creative Brian and then the
time of the update that happened now so
it that's the time that
inserted into the database.
And now we can have this kind of audit
trail of what the name of recipes has been
over time.
So why is this useful to do this
way as opposed to doing it in code?
Now if anything updates, updated recipes,
we will get an audit trail
of that no matter what.
Whether that's someone in PSQL doing it,
whether that's my app is doing it,
my functions, a different part of the app,
a different service.
Anything, this trigger will always fire.
So this would actually be
a pretty compelling use case for
a trigger at a function.
And even though it is putting some
business logic into the database.
Like you can imagine, let's say I
had someone hack my database and
get access to my production keys.
As long as they didn't have write access
to this, we would still get an audit trail
of something happening as long as they
were not able to drop that table right?
That's a big if, if you get hacked
you are probably screwed anyway.
But, it's a thing.
>> Can you explain where old and
new came from again?
Are those just keywords in SQL?
>> So, this is a trigger right?
So as part of the trigger function is, and
specifically an update trigger function
it provides to you old and new of like,
this is what it was,
this is what it's going to be.
You can do stuff based on that.
Like, something I could totally do here is
I could prevent unwanted changes, right?
So I could I could put some sort
of like code here that says like,
hey if this is changing in such a way
don't apply the change keep the old one.
There's a bunch of stuff you can do I
just showed you one that's like creating
an audit trail but.
Yeah we are scratching the surface here
because one I really don't want you to use
these that much.
And two It's not something I have a ton
of experience doing because I really try
to limit what kind of
work I put into this.
You cannot run procedures as triggers
I think I had that mistake in my last
lesson.
But that you can only run
functions as triggers.
Triggers always deal with functions, but
there is nothing preventing you from
calling a procedure from a function.
But I would be upset if you did,
probably because at that point,
just write the function that does it.
Don't call a procedure.
The more indirection you add to this,
the harder it gets.